Sweeps: Fixes code snippet(s), condenses page (#1518)
wandb/docs: content/en/guides/models/sweeps/add-w-and-b-to-your-code.md

weight: 2
---

This guide provides recommendations on how to add W&B Python APIs to your Python script or notebook.

## Original training script

Suppose you have a Python script that trains a model (see below). Your goal is to find the hyperparameters that maxmimizes the validation accuracy(`val_acc`).

In your Python script, you define two functions: `train_one_epoch` and `evaluate_one_epoch`. The `train_one_epoch` function simulates training for one epoch and returns the training accuracy and loss. The `evaluate_one_epoch` function simulates evaluating the model on the validation data set and returns the validation accuracy and loss.

> You define a configuration dictionary (`config`) that contains hyperparameter values such as the learning rate (`lr`), batch size (`batch_size`), and number of epochs (`epochs`). The values in the configuration dictionary are used to control the training process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You define a configuration dictionary (`config`) that contains hyperparameter values such as the learning rate (`lr`), batch size (`batch_size`), and number of epochs (`epochs`). The values in the configuration dictionary control the training process. 
```

Next you define a function called `main` that mimics a typical training loop. For each epoch, the accuracy and loss is computed on the training and validation data sets.

{{< alert >}}

> This code is a mock training script. It does not train a model, but simulates the training process by generating random accuracy and loss values. The purpose of this code is to demonstrate how to integrate W&B into your training script.

Reviewer: I like "integrate W&B into your training script" more than the way you word it in the overview, FWIW.

    return acc, loss

# config variable with hyperparameter values
config = {"lr": 0.0001, "batch_size": 16, "epochs": 5}

def main():
    lr = config["lr"]
    batch_size = config["batch_size"]
    epochs = config["epochs"]

    for epoch in np.arange(1, epochs):
        train_acc, train_loss = train_one_epoch(epoch, lr, batch_size)
        val_acc, val_loss = evaluate_one_epoch(epoch)

        print("epoch: ", epoch)
        print("training accuracy:", train_acc, "training loss:", train_loss)
        print("validation accuracy:", val_acc, "validation loss:", val_loss)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

> In the next section, you will add W&B to your Python script to track hyperparameters and metrics during training. You want to use W&B to find the best hyperparameters that maximize the validation accuracy (`val_acc`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next section shows how to add W&B to your Python script so it can track hyperparameters and metrics during training, and how W&B can help you find the hyperparameters that produce the best validation accuracy (`val_acc`).
```
Ignore if this is introducing inaccuracies.

## Training script with W&B Python SDK

> How you integrate W&B to your Python script or notebook depends on how you manage sweeps. You can start a sweep job within a Python notebook or script or from the command line.

Reviewer: I'd pick either "notebook or script" or "script or notebook" here and in the tabs below.

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="Python script or notebook" %}} 

> Add the following to your Python script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make some adjustments to your Python script:
```

> 1. Create a dictionary object where the key-value pairs define a [sweep configuration]({{< relref "/guides/models/sweeps/define-sweep-configuration/" >}}). The sweep configuration defines the hyperparameters you want W&B to explore on your behalf along with the metric you want to optimize. Continuing from the previous example, the batch size (`batch_size`), epochs (`epochs`), and the learning rate (`lr`) are the hyperparameters to vary during each sweep. You want to maximize the accuracy of the validation score so you set `"goal": "maximize"` and the name of the variable you want to optimize for, in this case `val_acc` (`"name": "val_acc"`).

Reviewer: Consider moving the "Continuing from...." up before the steps start. It makes this step look disproportionately long.

2. Pass the sweep configuration dictionary to [`wandb.sweep()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/sweep.md" >}}). This initializes the sweep and returns a sweep ID (`sweep_id`). For more information, see [Initialize sweeps]({{< relref "./initialize-sweeps.md" >}}).

> 3. At the top of your script, import the W&B Python SDK (`wandb`).

Reviewer: This seems out of order. Wouldn't you already need it to invoke wandb.sweep()?

> 4. Within your `main` function, use the [`wandb.init()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/init.md" >}}) API to generate a background process to sync and log data as a [W&B Run]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/run.md" >}}). Pass the project name as a parameter to the `wandb.init()` method. If you do not pass a project name, W&B uses the default project name.

Reviewer: Is it worth showing how to find the default project?

5. Fetch the hyperparameter values from the `wandb.Run.config` object. This allows you to use the hyperparameter values defined in the sweep configuration dictionary instead of hard coded values.
6. Log the metric you are optimizing for to W&B using [`wandb.Run.log()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/run.md/#method-runlog" >}}). You must log the metric defined in your configuration. For example, if you define the metric to optimize as `val_acc`, you must log `val_acc`. If you do not log the metric, W&B does not know what to optimize for. Within the configuration dictionary (`sweep_configuration` in this example), you define the sweep to maximize the `val_acc` value.
7. Start the sweep with [`wandb.agent()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/agent.md" >}}). Provide the sweep ID and the name of the function the sweep will execute (`function=main`), and specify the maximum number of runs to try to four (`count=4`).

> Putting this all together, your script might look simlar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Putting this all together, your script might look similar to the following:
```

{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

> {{% alert title="Logging metrics to W&B in a sweep"%}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Logging metrics to W&B in a sweep" %}}
```
Hugo is really picky about whitespace here

You must log the metric you define and are optimizing for in both your sweep configuration and with `wandb.Run.log()`. For example, if you define the metric to optimize as `val_acc` within your sweep configuration, you must also log `val_acc` to W&B. If you do not log the metric, W&B does not know what to optimize for.

```python
with wandb.init() as run:
    val_loss, val_acc = train()
    run.log(
        {
            "val_loss": val_loss,
            "val_acc": val_acc
            }
        )
```

The following is an incorrect example of logging the metric to W&B. The metric that is optimized for in the sweep configuration is `val_acc`, but the code logs `val_acc` within a nested dictionary under the key `validation`. You must log the metric directly, not within a nested dictionary.

> ```python

Reviewer: You say above that it won't work, but it is worth also saying it in a comment here, and consider disabling the copy button. (I don't remember how)
